[[1.1) Defensive Programming]] <- Back
[[1.3) Error Messages]] <- Next
[[1.4) Assumptions to consider when Programming]] <- Next

Two types of errors exist:
1) Syntax errors - the program will not compile
	- Due to some kind of issue existing within the source code (missing semi-colon, declaring an array with a negative size, etc...)

2) Logic error - runtime errors, commonly including:
	- Wrong algorithm.
	- Referencing an out of bound index for an array.
	- Tries to use a variable, or Object, which has not been initialised or properly initialised.
	- Certain combinations of method calls that result in the program entering a broken state.
	- Some user input causes the program to break.

#### Testing

Testing will catch some, not all, runtime errors as you need to know the cause of something that can break the program to test something.
- Some tests may be obvious, others may not be.
- Testing reduces the set of possible causes for the program erroring.
- When the cause of an error has been found, you can test for it.

NOTE: Testing does not catch everything.

#### Untestable things

1) Some user input: both mistakes and attacks.
	- Somebody could input a character into an integer input field by mistake.
	- Somebody could purposefully input something that causes the program to crash or perform some unexpected program behaviour.
	  
	  - Program requires a way to validate input and prevent itself from crashing or performing some unknown behaviour.

2) System
	- Memory being full or corrupted.
	- Disk being full or corrupted.
	- Network error (message being lost, program becoming disconnected from network).
	- External software  (OS, database, etc) doing something unexpected, causing the program to do something unexpected or just crash. 

3) Program that interacts with yours doing something unexpected.

4) A UI, server, or client that causes something to go wrong.

In most cases, some code is required to handle the unexpected runtime error gracefully.
- You cannot write tests to prevent users, file system state, network connected, third party app.
- Handling an unexpected runtime error gracefully means to handle it in such a way that the program can continue running, without unexpected program behaviour.


