[[4.2) Handling Unchecked Exceptions]] <- Back
[[6.1) Defining custom Exceptions]] <- Next

---
RunTimeException type Exceptions will be thrown automatically, without having to check or declaring that they will be thrown.
- If uncaught, a check exception can be thrown.
- Code which called the method which threw an uncaught checked exception has to then handle the checked exception with a try-catch.

If a method MIGHT throw a checked exception, this requires a throws declaration on the method declaration...
```java
public void printElement(final int arr) throws IndexOutOfBoundsException{
    //method definition
}
```

- This is to give some form of warning, to the code that calls such a method, that an Exception might be thrown.
- It is not a guarantee that an Exception will be thrown, it just makes the compiler aware that something could go wrong.


A throws declaration is required when a method does not catch an Exception that occurs within it.
- Therefore, the calling code must handle it or pass it up the call stack.
- An explicit throw new exception line is not the sole cause of a method throwing an Exception, it can be unexpected.


### PROPAGATING A CHECKED EXCEPTION

- To propagate a checked exception, you just have to declare that the method throws a checked exception.

```java
public void readFile(int i) throws IOException{
    //no try-catch block.
}
```

To propagate means to send the exception, if thrown, up the call stack to the code which called the method.

### RAISING A CHECKED EXCEPTION

- Raising means to force an Exception to occur.

```java
public void readFile(int i) throws IOException{
    //some code that propagates the IO exception if the file is bad
if(!file.exists()){
    throw new PortfolioException("Cannot locate file!");
	}
}
```

## HOW TO HANDLE THROWS WITH CHILD CLASSES
[[5.2) Throws and Child Classes]] 

