[[4.2) JS Syntax]]
[[5.1) JS Variables.]]
- Any computer program, irrespective of the language, is a series of instructions to be executed.

- Each element in this series is an individual statement.

- In HTML, JS statements are executed by web browsers.

## JS Statements

- Any JS statement can consists of:
1) Values.
2) Operators.
3) Expressions.
4) Keywords.
5) Comments.

```
document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "hello"
```
This statement, when compiled and executed by the browser, results in hello being outputted inside a HTML element with an ID of dolly.

- JS statements are compiled then executed procedurally. One line, then the next, then the next after that, is executed until the program is fully compiled and executed.

## Semi-colons
- Every JS statement ends with a semicolon. This is to indicate to the compiler that this is the end of the current statement.
```
let a, b, c; //3 variables declared.
a = 5; //variable a is assigned a value of 5
b = 6; //variable b is assigned a value of 6
c = a + b; //variable c is assigned a value of the
			 sum of variables a and b.
```

- When separated by semicolons, multiple statements can be on a single line. They are still treated as separate lines by the compiler though.

```
a = 5; b = 6; c = a+b;
```

## JS White Space

- JS ignores multiple whitespaces. You can add white space yourself to make things more readable.

```
//The whitespace on either side of the equal is ignored by the compiler and treated as equivalent to a statement without a whitespace on either side.
let person = "Hedge";
let person="Hedge";
```

- For readability, it is good practice to put whitespace on either side of operators. This improves readability.

## JS Line Length and Breaks
- For readability, it is standard to break lines of code > 80 characters apart.

- If > 80 characters, and operators exist, break lines up after an operator.

## JS Code Blocks

- JS statements can be grouped in blocks of code, inside curly braces { }.

- Purpose of code blocks is to define statements to be executed together.

```
function myFunction() {
	console.log("hello 123");
	console.log("function executed");
}
```

## JS Keywords
- JS statements, often, begin with a keyword to identify the action the JS statement should perform.

List of reserved words:
1) var - declares a variable.
2) let - declares a block variable.
3) const - declares a block constant.
4) if - executes a block of statements if a condition is met.
5) switch - executes a block of statements to be executed in different cases.
6) for - executes a block of statements in a loop.
7) function - declares a function.
8) return - exits a function.
9) try - implements error handling to a block of statements.

- JS keywords are reserved. They cannot be used as variable names.