- JS syntax is a set of rules that are to be obeyed when creating a JS program.

## 1) JS Values:

- JS syntax lists two types of values:
1) Fixed values.
2) Variable values.

- Fixed values are called LITERALS.
- Variable values are called VARIABLES.

### 1.1) JS Literals:

- Two most important rules for fixed values are:
1) Numbers are written with or without decimals.
2) Strings are text, encased within double or single quotes.
### 1.2) JS Variables:
- Variables are used to store data values. 
- JS uses the keywords var, let, and const, to declare variables.
- An equal sign operator is used to ASSIGN values to a variable.
```
let x = 5;
```

## 2) JS Operators:
- JS uses arithmetic operators to compute values.
1) + (ADDITION).
2) - (SUBTRACTION).
3) * (MULTIPLICATION).
4) / (DIVISION).

```
let x, y;
x = 5;
y = (2 * 5) + 2
```

## 3) JS Expressions: 
- An expression is a combination of VALUES, VARIABLES, AND OPERATORS. Expressions compute a value.
	- The computation is referred to an evaluation.

```
	let x, y;
	x = 5 + 6; //An evaluation that evaluates to x = 11
	y = x * 10; //An evaluation that evaluates to y = 110
```

- Variables can be terms in an evaluation.
## 4) JS Keywords:
- JS keywords are used to identify actions to be performed.
1) let keywords tells browser to create variables.
```
let x, y; //Variables x and y are declared.
```
2) var keywords tells the browser to create variables too.
```
var x, y; //Variables x and y are declared.
```
## 5) JS Comments:
- JS comments are statements yet they are not executed. 
- Statements with a // before them, or statements encased within /* and */ are treated as a comment.
- Comments are ignored. They are not compiled, henceforth, they are not executed.

## JS 6) Identifiers/Names:
- Identifiers are JS names.
- Identifiers are used to name variables, keywords, and functions.
- An identifier must:
1) A letter (A-Z or a-z).
2) A dollar sign ($).
3) An underscore (_).