[[2,1 Sampling Distributions]] <- Back

---
# What is Bootstrapping?
Bootstrapping is a type of resampling method.

Resampling methods are used to generate new samples from a sample, as opposed to taking a new sample of a population.
- WHY: may be unfeasible to continuously take new samples from population due to cost and time.

Bootstrapping is the most common sampling method for generating confidence intervals.
- Requires the least assumptions.

# How does Bootstrapping work?
Bootstrapping works by randomly sampling the sample with replacement from the original sample.
- This creates multiple smaller samples or equally sized samples.
- Newly generated samples will be fake but will use values derived from the original sample.

## Example

$$
sample_1 = \{11, 12, 30, 27\}
$$
Bootstrapping may result in...
$$
sample_2 = {11, 11, 30, 27}
$$
$$
sample_3 = \{30, 30, 27, 12\}
$$
NOTE:
- The no. of occurrences of a given data point may increase in fake samples generated by bootstrapping.
- NO new values which are unseen in the original sample will appear in the fake ones generated by bootstrapping.

Essentially:
- Given one sample of n size, multiple fake samples of also size n are generated.

# Advantages/Disadvantages of Bootstrapping
## Advantages
1) Bootstrapping makes no assumptions.
	- Makes no assumptions on the sampling or outcome distribution.

## Disadvantages
1) Any algorithm/sampling method which makes no assumptions requires more data to provide high quality outputs.

