[[2.2) Converting Series]] <- Next

---
# What is the Series object?
A Series object is a 1d labelled array. Each element is a key value pair.
- Value is accessed by it's key.

A [[1.1) DataFrame DS]] is an array of Series objects that all share a same index which uniquely identifies elements which share an index across all Series in a DataFrame.

Each time a specific column of a DataFrame is referred to via it's key, a Series object is being accessed.
- Columns ARE Series.
# Initialising a Series object.
A Series object is initialised by...

```python
import pandas as pd

series1 = pd.Series([0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5])
```

A Series constructor has 2 parameters:
- A list of values.
	- Can provide a singular scalar value instead. No. of elements in Series will depend on no. of keys provided.
- A list of keys.
	- If no list of keys provided, uses the index of the values as their keys as default.

To define custom keys for the values, the keys list must be provided when the constructor is called.

```python
import pandas as pd

keys = ["a, b, c"]
values = [0, 1, 2]
series2 0 pd.Series(values, index = keys)
```



# Accessing Keys and Values of a Series
Recall: a Series is a 1d map of key, value pairs.

A Series stores it's keys and values in lists within the Series object. These 2 lists can be accessed by accessing them as public data members of the class.

```python
import pandas as pd

s = pd.Series([100, 110, 90], index=["a", "b", "c"]

print(s.index)
print(s.values)
```

The index data member is stored as a pandas Index object. The values data member is stored as a numpy 1d array object.
- These can be converted by the `tolist()` function members.
```python
print(s.index.tolist())
print(s.values.tolist())
```