[[4.1 - Types of Exception]] <- Back

---
## Exception parent class
The structure of the exception class, the ultimate parent of all standard exceptions, is useful to know.

```c++
class exception{
public:
	exception() noexcept;
	exception(const exception&) noexcept;
	exception& operator=(const exception&) noexcept;

	virtual ~exception();
	virtual const char* what() const noexcept;
}
```

When inheriting, the destructor of the exception class can be overridden
- Not mandatory. If not overridden, a custom exception uses the immediate parent's destructor.

Also, the what() method can be overridden.

## How to Define a user-defined Exception
All exceptions are classes.

To define a user-defined exception, 3 ways exist...
1) Inherit from the Exception root parent class.
2) Inherit from another Exception.
3) Define a non-standard Exception

### 1) Inherit from the Exception root parent class
Easiest way to define a user-defined Exception is to inherit from the exception class, the ultimate parent of all standard exceptions in C++

```c++
class CustomExcept : public std::exception{
	const char* what() const noexcept override{
		return "This went wrong!";
	}
};
```

- what() returns a pointer to an array of characters (a string) which provides an error message.
- Can handle user-defined exceptions as any other type of exception can be handled.


### 2) Inherit from another Standard Exception
Instead of inheriting from the exception root class, you can inherit from one of it's children which are all standard exceptions.

Inheriting from one of these, as opposed to inheriting from the exception root class, allows their function members to be used.
- Such as the structured display of messages.


```c++
class CustomRuntimeException : public std::runtime_error{
public:
	CustomRuntimeException(const string& msg){
		std::runtime_error(msg); // pass msg argument to parent...
	}
}
```

Then, when throwing the user-defined error which inherits from another standard class...

```c++
throw CustomRuntimeException("ahhhhh");
```

Give a string parameter, which is the error message to be displayed.

### 3) Define a non-standard Exception
Instead of doing any inheritance, a stand-alone exception can be defined which is not a part of the standard exception set.
- If stand-alone, it is harder to integrate with C++'s exception handling mechanism.

```c++
class Exception{
protected:
	std::string msg;
public:
	Exception(const std::string &msg){
		this->msg = msg;
	}
	
	virtual char* what(){
		return this->msg;
	}
}
```

MUST...
- Define a constructor which...
	1) Takes a string message to display as an error message.
	2) Has a set constant string in the user-defined exception class which what() returns.

AND...

- A what() method which returns the msg data member of the user-defined exception class.


